---
title: App usage
description: Get the most out of Firefly Pico with this daily workflow.
seo:
  title: Guide
  description: Get the most out of Firefly Pico with these suggestions.
---

**Firefly III** is very flexible and that can leave people unsure about how they should organise things. By no means is this the only way to do, but here's my opinionated guide:

### Daily usage
- Create **asset** accounts for everything: one for every family member, one for your savings, stocks broker etc.
- Don't create any **revenue** or **expense** accounts; that way they will be treated as "cash" and you'll have one less field to fill inside transactions
- Create your big, general **categories**: ex. Bills, Food, Fun, Transportation etc.
- Create your root **tags** with names identical to the **categories** above. This enables auto-selection of a **tag** when you pick a **category** and vice-versa.
- Create your child **tags** for granularity (ex. *Electricity*, *Heating*, *Internet* all under the parent **tag** *Bills*). It's a good idea to remember these names and use them with the assistant for super fast expense tracking
- Create a **tag**, name it "*todo*", and set the `Mark as to-do` field to Yes. Attach this tag to any transaction that needs later editing. Ex. You paid dinner for multiple people and some will give you the money back later. Or you buy multiple shoes and return some of them. All these transactions will show up on your **Dashboard**.
- Set the usual account from which you make payments in `Settings -> Transactions -> Default form values -> Default source account`
- Inside **Firefly III** create **recurring transactions**for all your subscriptions and transactions that repeat at fixed intervals \[These are not yet implemented inside **Firefly-Pico**]
- Identify any transactions that you perform regularly but cannot be turned into **Repeating transactions** because of irregularities. Create **templates** for them. The assistant can easily handle them as well.
- For budgets you can setup "Rules" inside Firefly III. When a transaction is created, if it has a list of tags, asign it to your desiered budget.


### On vacation:
- Create a new **tag** "vacation germany 2026" under a root tag "vacation".
- Create a new **profile** called "vacation"
- Configure `Settings -> Transactions -> Default form values` to use the foreign currency "Euro" and default tag "vacation germany 2026"
- Configure `Settings -> Assistant -> Currency` to "Euro"
This way you can still use the assitant to create new transactions, write the amount in the actual local currency and have the "vacation germany 2026" **tag** added
automatically so you can check your total spending when you get back


### Mobile device. 
Finally make the process of starting the app faster by installing the PWA:
- [iOS] open the app in Safari -> Share -> Add to Homescreen. The app will also show up in you iOS global search
